Create fip-0066.md (#756)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIPS/fip-0066.md

---

> fip: "0066"

Reviewer: Leave as FIP00XX for now.  There is already a FIP0066.  FIP Editors assign FIP numbers once the draft is reviewed and merged.

title: Extension of Runtime Methods for Address Verification
author: "David Casem <@dcasem>"
discussions-to: https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/401
status: Draft
type: Technical
category: Core
created: 2023-07-24
---

## Simple Summary

> Introduces a new built-in actor method to the miner actors for address validation to be used in determining \

Reviewer 2: (Editor comment)

```suggestion
Introduces a method to the built-in Miner actor for address validation to be used in determining \
```

> whether a given address belongs to a miner actor as a  worker in the Filecoin network.

Reviewer 2: (Editor)

Clearer wording.

```suggestion
whether a given address corresponds to the worker of the queried Miner on the Filecoin network.
```

## Abstract

> The proposed FIP introduces a new built-in actor method to the miner actors for address validation to be used in determining \

Reviewer 2: (Editor)

```suggestion
The proposed FIP introduces a new method to the built-in miner actor for address validation to be used in determining \
```

> whether a given address belongs to a miner actor as a  worker in the Filecoin network.

Reviewer 2: Same as the Simple Summary, but ok for such a simple FIP. Would be good to cite the method name here.

> whether a given address belongs to a miner actor as a  worker in the Filecoin network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
whether a given address corresponds to the worker of the queried Miner on the Filecoin network.
```

## Change Motivation

> There are several scenarios in the Filecoin protocol where it is necessary to confirm if a particular address belongs to a miner actor as a worker key. Having a dedicated exported method in the miner actorto handle such checks can increase efficiency and readability of the codebase.

Reviewer 2: (Editor comment)

This is a weak motivation without examples. Can you please list 3-4 such examples?

Reviewer: I agree with @raulk.  

@dcasem can you please commit changes directly to your FIP draft?

## Specification

> We propose to introduce a new method: `is_worker_address()`. This function receives an address as parameter and returns a boolean indicating whether this address corresponds to a worker in the network or not. The function implements a logic to resolve the address and checks it against the current worker address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We propose to introduce a new method: `is_worker_address()` to the Miner actor. This function receives an address as parameter and returns a boolean indicating whether this address corresponds to a worker in the network or not. The function implements a logic to resolve the address and checks it against the current worker address.
```

```function is_worker_address(rt: Runtime, params: IsWorkerAddressParams) returns Result<IsWorkerAddressReturn, ActorError>:

    // Accept any caller
    rt.validate_immediate_caller_accept_any()

    // Resolve the address
    address = rt.resolve_address(params.address)

    // If address is null, return false
    if address is null:
        return Ok(IsWorkerAddressReturn { is_worker: false })

    // Fetch the current state
    state = rt.state()

    // Retrieve the miner info
    info = get_miner_info(rt.store(), state)

    // Check if the resolved address matches the worker address
    is_worker = (address == info.worker)

    // Return the result
    return Ok(IsWorkerReturn { is_worker })
```

## Backwards Compatibility
This proposal should not have any backward compatibility issues. The function is a new addition and does not alter any existing methods or structures.

## Test Cases
To ensure the correctness of the `is_worker_address()` function, multiple test cases covering different scenarios (worker/non-worker addresses, non-resolvable addresses etc.) should be considered

Possible Tests:

`IsWorkerAddress` correctly identifies the worker address

> `IsWorkerAddress` correctly identifies non-worker addresses

Reviewer 2: (Peer review)

Good that we're thinking about positive and negative testing, but these definitions are a bit unspecific. Consider test cases involving miners that have no worker, and queries with different address types.

## Implementation

> This FIP does not require any changes to existing protocols. The changes would be implemented in the actor package in the. The exact implementation details will depend on the codebase at the time of implementation.

Reviewer 2: (Peer)

Introducing any change in Wasm bytecode is protocol-breaking because bytecode is referenced by CID.
